Just as a general recap before we go into
deployment, and then we're gonna look at
environment variables here a little bit,
let's poke at what we built today.
So first and foremost,
we set up custom data.
We were able to pull in custom
data from these JSON files,
we could have pulled them in
from a third party API, or
could use software as a service thing,
could use a headless CMS, whatever.
And using those and the Gatsby source
nodes API, we were able to specify some
relationships between them and then create
nodes in the graph QL layer for each one.
We were also able to use the create
pages API to then go ahead and
turn all of these into like
here we got our books.
We turned our books into pages,
with some special handling,
we needed some logic for
the way that the slugs were done.
And that let us to some
customization in the data itself,
we wanted to be able to create a bio-link.
We wanted to be able to get the cover
image from a third party service.
So we use the Open Library to find
those covers and then turn that into
a locally optimized image by loading
it in with a custom resolver.
All of that led to us
building out these pages.
And then we dug into client only routes,
were able to get those up and running,
we got protected routes up and running,
and we also built ourselves a theme.
So with a Gatsby theme,
we were able to set up this header and
the nav and all that good stuff
with this shared styling, and
we didn't actually have to
include that nav on anything.
So if you look at our pages, our pages
actually don't have any reference to like
a layout, there's no layout here
we just export this markup.
But when we go to the books page, you can
see that it still has this layout apply,
that's the power of a theme.
And we used some tools including
just regular old config by
overriding the site metadata
which composes in themes.
To set our site title and
the nav items, and
then we also use a technique
called file shadowing.
To replace the variables and change
the heading color to dark blue up here,
so that we were able to
have a dark blue header.
>> I'm just curious, so
the way you did the data pool,
I've been putting it in a in
a direct in a plugins directory.
Did you do it differently
because this is a monocyte?
Or is has the convention just changed or
is it could you just do it either way?
>> I mean the idea of making a custom
plugin for your site to handle
stuff like data pulling that's
an organizational choice.
If I had a really complicated.
To the node, which we are kind
of approaching that, right?
This is a fairly complex Gatsby
node file where it 150 lines.
So I could pull all of this out
into like a Gatsby plugin books.
That would be locally installed and
then I could use it and
not have to look at this as
part of my actual site build,
it mostly comes down to your preference,
right?
Because there's cleanliness of having
it tucked away in a plugin is nice you
don't have to think about it.
You don't have to look at it.
If I was shipping this to lots and
lots of developers,
I would probably consider that
because it's one less thing for
somebody to get intimidated by to stumble
into and accidentally break their site.
The other side of it though,
like the trade off here is that,
that's an indirection.
So by taking it out of the site setup and
putting it into a separate directory,
if it's not gonna be reused,
you're adding a layer of indirection
around the where the data is coming from.
So it's ultimately a matter of preference
I would say way the the use case and
where it's gonna live and
how many people have to look at it.
Who has to maintain the data itself versus
who has to just use what comes out of it?
And based on the answers
to those questions,
I think both answers are good answers.